---
title: Hello Work
permalink: wiki/Hello_Work/
layout: wiki
---

It isn't very well known, but the staff at "Hello Work" (Public
Employment Security Office) provides employment information and
consultation for foreigners as well as Japanese. Basically it is for
foreigners who are either "spouses of Japanese", "long-term residents",
"permanent residents" or have a visa status as professionals or
specialists. Students who have permission to work part-time are also
eligible for their services. But even persons with a dependent visa can
work, although there are some restrictions and it will require a trip to
the immigration office. With a dependent visa you are allowed to work up
to 28 hours a week. If you are able to find a job, you will need to have
the employer fill out a form stating your work duties and hours. You
then take this form and your passport, alien registration card and a
certificate of Alien registration for the person whose dependent you are
and go to the Immigration office to apply for a "permission to engage in
activities other than that permitted by present status".

The staff also said that they don't have any jobs that are especially
for foreigners like English teacher, translator, researcher etc. Those
kinds of jobs are found through recruiting companies. Hello Work
basically offers work where you use your body more than your brain.

The nearest Hello Work Office is in Tsuchiura. Consultation in Chinese
is available on Mondays 10 am to 3 pm. English is available on
Wednesdays & Fridays 10 am to 3 pm. Please bring your passport and alien
registration card and a "Certificate of Alien Registration" for the
person whose dependent you are.

Last year over 1000 foreigners came for consultation and about 100 found
work. The staff said that it isn't easy for a foreigner to find work
especially if he/she can't speak Japanese and doesn't have mobility.
Most jobs available are in cleaning, manufacturing etc.

Contact
-------

Tsuchiura, Manabe 1-18-19 Manabe, 029-822-5124
