---
title: Japan Association for Language Teaching
permalink: wiki/Japan_Association_for_Language_Teaching/
layout: wiki
---

Message from Martin Pauly:

I have been a member of the Ibaraki Chapter of JALT for many years and
am now serving as the Program Chair of our chapter. I will say a little
of what the organization offers me personally. (For more detailed
information please visit our website or attend one of our local
presentations, which are announced in the [Alien
Times](/wiki/Alien_Times "wikilink") and on [TAIRA](TAIRA "wikilink").) On the
national level we have a 3 or 4-day national conference every October or
November. This year's conference was held at Tezukayama University in
Nara, drawing over 1700 participants, of whom approximately 40% were
Japanese teachers and 60% non-Japanese. There are 21 Special Interest
Groups (SIGs), I am especially interested in the Bilingualism SIG, the
main focus of which is the raising of children bi or trilingually.
Because I teach at a college I have joined the College and University
Educators (CUE) SIG. (There is also a Jr/Sr HS SIG.) Also, I enjoy the
Computer Assisted Language Learning (CALL) SIG which has an annual
conference. (Last spring it was at Tokiwa U in Mito.) On the local level
we have a presentation every other month. The presentations are always
on Sunday afternoons. The meeting site rotates between 4 cities; Tsukuba
Women's University in Tsukuba, the Ulara Bldg across from Tsuchiura
Station in Tsuchiura, Ibaraki University or Mito Shimin Kaikan in Mito,
and Ibaraki Christian University in Hitachi. Attendees need not be
teachers. (There is no registering of affiliation or showing of IDs.)
The organization purposely chose the name "for Language Teaching" and
not "of Language Teachers" to clarify this distinction. As presentation
content may range from classroom teaching, to children's language
problems, to using computers, if there is a lecture of interest to you,
feel free to attend.

Links
-----

-   <http://www.kasei.ac.jp/JALT> Japan Association for Language
    Teaching (Ibaraki Chapter)

