---
title: Movies
permalink: wiki/Movies/
layout: wiki
---

-   [Movie Theatres](/wiki/Movie_Theatres "wikilink")

Movie Schedules
---------------

You can find a weekly Schedule for all movies on the Joyo Living website
(http://www.joyoliving.co.jp/movie/index.php). This and all other
websites mentioned in this section are in Japanese, but you might be
able to read enough to figure out what is showing if you know a few
katakana characters and have good guessing skills.

Schedules can also be found on the [theatre](/wiki/Movie_Theatres "wikilink")
websites.

Finding the Japanese Title of a Movie
-------------------------------------

You want to find a movie that you've heard good things about, but you
can't find it because the name of the greatest monster flick ever
written has been changed to "Love and Heartache in Los Angeles". Ever
happen to you? This always happens to me, so I thought that I would
offer some advice about finding film titles in English and Japanese.
There is a book that you might find helpful: Pia Cinema Club (around
3500 yen), published yearly. It is in Japanese, but it gives the titles
of movies in English and Japanese. The index is particularly helpful.

There is also a Pia Cinema Club website
(http://www.pia.co.jp/cinemaclub), but it will only let you search for
titles by their Japanese name, so it's not really all that useful.

The website for Tsutaya (http://www.tsutaya.co.jp) is a bit more helpful
but it is still not perfect. It will let you search for movies by their
English titles, but you may have to try a few times to get what you
want. I tried searching for "Monster's Ball" (because the Japanese title
is "Chocolate", if you can believe it) and was unable to get it by
typing in "monster's ball", but was able to choose from among the
options that presented themselves when I typed in "monster" alone.
Similarly, I tried to search for "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". I
wasn't able to get it with "cuckoo", but "one flew" sent me directly to
the right page. So, if you don't mind futzing about a bit, this site
should prove useful. In general, I think you will have more success if
you enter the first few words in the English title exactly as they
appear in the title (including "the"). If you are not sure of the exact
title, use the Internet Movie Database (http://www.imdb.com) to search
for the title of the movie or one of the actors in it.

These websites are in Japanese, but you can probably use them even if
your kanji reading ability is not quite ready for prime time. Get a
Japanese person to walk you through the site the first time you use it
and you should be fine.

Movie Reviews
-------------

If you would like to look up information on movies, try one of the
following sites.

-   <http://www.imdb.com> Internet Movie Database
-   <http://www.metacritic.com/film> Metacritic
-   <http://www.rottentomatoes.com> Rotten Tomatoes

