---
title: Tsuchiura Fireworks Festival
permalink: wiki/Tsuchiura_Fireworks_Festival/
layout: wiki
---

Usually held on the first Saturday of October, the Tsuchiura Fireworks
is the last major competitive event of the year for pyrotechnic teams
from around the nation. Many observers say that it is one of the very
best fireworks displays in the entire nation, as fireworks artists put
everything they've got into the grand display. Many of thousands of
bursts are prototypes of new designs for next year's season, and so
fireworks makers want to make a good impression on potential buyers.

The higher bursts can easily be seen from any elevated spot in Tsukuba
with a view of the eastern sky, but it is really worth making the effort
to join the crowds near "ground zero" and take it all in. The show
begins at about 6 pm and lasts for about 2 hours. Parking is always a
problem, and since people begin showing up 2 or 3 hours early to get a
good spot, you will need to allow plenty of time. In fact, many people
plan an afternoon picnic while staking out their claims to a space. As
much of the area will be newly harvested rice fields, be sure to take a
plastic tarp to cover the ground along with any other convenience you
want along, such as pillows, blankets that you're willing and able to
carry along. The best views from the Tsukuba side are along Highway 6
(6-go bypass), which is an elevated highway across the fields. The Ohta
Store parking lot is an excellent place to view from, but you need to
get there early and not be in a hurry to get back. Cars crowd along
every little side street, often making passage difficult. For easy
access and relatively quick departure, the best parking is along the
Tsuchiura-Gakuen Sen. The outer two lanes of this 4-lane road are made
available for parking, and so if you need to make a quick exit, park
along the side of the road headed towards the direction you want to go.

It is only a few minutes walk from there to the fields between the
bypass and the river, where most people watch it from, and then it is
comparatively easy to get out and on your way back. Don't expect to be
able to do that if you wait until an hour or so before dark to go. If
you must go later, the best way is just to go by bicycle. If you have a
car that is big enough to put your bicycle in, then you can drive part
way, find a parking spot on some back road and bike from there. In case
of rain or high winds, the event will be postponed until the following
night. The weather is usually quite nice in early October, but by
evening, it is likely to be a bit cool. So be prepared with a jacket and
a flashlight.
